life is a struggle for Palestinian
Benders in the old city of East
Jerusalem the Gaza war broke out at the
start of the key travel season scaring
off tourists and pilgrims completely
they won't be back for a long time food
guide and Chef Iselin bukari only has me
to show around so uh I have a bit of
work but it's goingn to be more than 10%
of what they used to more locals are out
and about today there are no of the
deadly military raids and unrest that
have surged here and throughout the
Israeli occupied West
Bank the few little jobs that iseline
can find are now less profitable and
more challenging in his line of
work is it difficult at the moment to um
get your hands on the the produce you
need because of the War uh yeah there is
a shortage of vegetables uh grains uh
Rices are going up he says the state aid
only goes so far tourism was a key
employer here along with Agriculture and
construction for which more than 150,000
Palestinians from the West Bank entered
Israel daily most of them have been
banned since the hummus Terror attacks
unemployment is soared strangling the
West Bank economy sparking further
turmoil and creating a supply shock for
the Israeli economy many building
projects have come to a
standstill Israel has been looking at
flying in tens of thousands of
replacement workers from mainly Asian
Nations there's been a rush to sign up
in poorer places like parts of India
despite the dangers of coming to a
country at
War it's also sparked a domestic debate
about the morals of taking Palestinian
jobs Arafat sharabati has been out of
work since the October 7th attack the
Palestinian Taxi driver and father of
three says he doesn't want to have to be
a burden on his
family the situation is so difficult my
children are helping me with the costs
of living I have children who are
married and working and supporting me at
the same
time he used to drive the 45 minutes
between Tel Aviv and Jerusalem several
times a day or to cities in the West
Bank but says the heightened security
there has made what used to be a 1-hour
return trip
unbearable so if I want to drive to the
West Bank and back given the
circumstances the checkpoints and the
constant blockades it's likely to take
an entire day for just one trip to rala
so in the current situation it's not at
all
profitable and as we discover Arafat
can't get into certain parts of East
Jerusalem at all that shuts off another
potential source of
income the street has been closed on a
daily basis you used to be able to
continue on from here but the old city
is permanently closed the area around
alaka mosque is closed they keep
everyone from entering the situation is
extremely difficult it's not
easy the Israeli government has been
talking about extending entry
restrictions to the area around the
sacred mosque across the holy month of
Ramadan that's causing even more
tensions Palestinian figures accuse the
ultra religious far-right Coalition of
provoking Muslims and prolonging the
war but can Israel afford an even longer
and even more expensive military
campaign the state is borrowing
heavily it's on track to run one of its
widest budget deficits this
Century the ratings agency Moody's has
lowered Israel's creditworthiness for
the first time prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says the rating will go back
up as soon as we win the war and we will
win the mood among the Israeli public
isn't as optimistic especially among the
families of hostages who've been held
captive in Gaza for close to 140 days
and the relatives of Fallen Soldiers of
past conflicts and this
one never ever so many people have died
in Israel in one war and this is one
government that is in charge for this
and they're
not taking any responsibility for what
happened and it's
[Music]
unbelievable as the frustration grows so
too the crowds at weekly political
protests on habima Square in Tel Aviv
but opinions are
divided I'm sure that none of the people
around here are aware or even care about
what what actually happens in Gaza and I
wish for
sanctions uh uh for israels would would
sanctions be the only way to actually
get this war to stop I think so yeah
when people when the Israelis will start
to feel
distressed that's might change their uh
um opinions or at least their behavior
why do you want to hurt the people here
it's not hard enough we we have we have
it good here we don't have it good here
hurt hurt the government don't hurt the
people why would you do
[Music]
that the fact that you that we actually
blame netan for all this is an absurd
because Israelis do not want to look at
themselves they they love the fact that
they can EX
blame n for everything you know it's
it's
beautiful they CH shame on you as the
protest begins to wind up some head down
the road to an even bigger rally at
hostage Square in support of captives
families we head to Kaplan Street
outside military headquarters where a
much louder anti-government protest has
been growing every Saturday from a
handful of people to a 1,000 strong Crow
Crow the battle lines are drawn between
the demonstrators and police emotions
are running High police are now moving
in some of them on Horseback to subdue
the protesters things are reaching
Tipping Point here in Tel
[Applause]
AV they're taking away one protester
after the
next several arrests are made again
tonight some people are fined for
blocking roads or disturbing the
peace this was a nation in shock just
four months ago they were dealing with
the trauma of October 7 they were
dealing with a war against Hamas now
their Fury is pointed directly at the
Israeli
government Netanyahu has criticized many
of the protests as useless and
contributing to the demands of Hamas
these guys want the prime minister to
resign with all the polls 80% of
Israelis do not have faith in nanal we
need to bring our hostages back we need
to end this conflict and we need to
protect our people our country our
economy with elections for many many
many years Israel has been shown to be a
very strong startup nation everyone is
looking for Israel for our Tech talent
and this has not
changed however
however it is very clear to us that this
ongoing this ongoing um situation of War
cannot cannot persist and at the end of
the day one of the things that alarm me
is that my prime minister is not
incentivized to end this some investors
are pulling out of Israel credit ratings
agency Moody's is worried about the
political and fiscal risks forecast a
negative economic
Outlook I think tensions you know every
workplace has in be chesh in central
Israel Danny Shapiro says the deadliest
attack on Jews since the Holocaust saw
him close the family business initially
beer consumption went down really fast
cuz you know those are one of the first
things that are that that get hit so our
production went down I'd
say over 80% instead of laying off staff
he found work for them on farms in the
South near Gaza otherwise manned by
Foreign laborers who'd fled we helped
them pick mangoes and pineapples and
fayas we donated uh work our Working
Hands uh when we were done so we uh we
bought part of that and we actually made
a beer from it the amount of of positive
responses to any initiative was really
uh overwhelming and people like they
they want to help so they uh so so
people were buying the beer even before
the beer was ready consumer confidence
has returned Israelis are leaving their
homes again they're shopping returning
to bars and restaurants the economy
could grow this year and rebound next
year if the conflict is contained to
Gaza I can't bear life right now
witnessing what's happening on the news
every day what's happening in
Gaza the situation is critical and it
makes one psychologically
uncomfortable what I long for most is an
end to this war for the poor people of
Gaza they've witnessed horrific and
unimaginable
scenes finding Works taking a back seat
for iseline as he tries to get the
family he has in Gaza out we were able
uh for my sister to get her out about 2
months ago from as so she's now with us
in Jerusalem but uh we're trying to get
the rest of family members and her
husband uh and that's definitely a
challenge uh how many relatives have you
lost so far uh we lost uh more than
seven uh relatives uh my aunt and her
kids uh and her children uh her
grandchildren uh which is basically was
a 3 one member in one uh air strike of
her family and the family of her husband
what is isine is critical of the Israeli
government but still has reason for hope
we can see uh that what is happening
here uh in this country uh and the
policies is not pushing to anywhere but
I feel the push of the International
Community will make uh pressure for some
things to happen really good seeing you
again see again take care but if the war
drags on economists warn of huge damage
to both the Palestinian and Israeli
economies